day3-homework/README.md, before:

# QBB2022 - Day 3 - Homework Exercises Submission

## Exercise 1 
I mainly used the main plink documentation website and gleaned that it was a command-line command, with --vcf file and --pca flags. I had actually impulsively gunzip'd the provided data file into a vcf file but after learning that plink can also accept `*.gz` files, I removed my unzipped file (because wow it was much larger than the zipped file)

```
plink --vcf ALL.chr21.shapeit2_integrated_v1a.GRCh38.20181129.phased.vcf.gz --pca
PLINK v1.90b6.21 64-bit (19 Oct 2020)          www.cog-genomics.org/plink/1.9/
(C) 2005-2020 Shaun Purcell, Christopher Chang   GNU General Public License v3
Logging to plink.log.
Options in effect:
  --pca
  --vcf ALL.chr21.shapeit2_integrated_v1a.GRCh38.20181129.phased.vcf.gz

16384 MB RAM detected; reserving 8192 MB for main workspace.
--vcf: plink-temporary.bed + plink-temporary.bim + plink-temporary.fam written.
976599 variants loaded from .bim file.
2548 people (0 males, 0 females, 2548 ambiguous) loaded from .fam.
Ambiguous sex IDs written to plink.nosex .
Using up to 8 threads (change this with --threads).
Before main variant filters, 2548 founders and 0 nonfounders present.
Calculating allele frequencies... done.
976599 variants and 2548 people pass filters and QC.
Note: No phenotypes present.
Relationship matrix calculation complete.
--pca: Results saved to plink.eigenval and plink.eigenvec .
```
I wasn't really sure what options to specify so I had just run sort of blind. Looking at the results, which pulled the top 20 eigenvalues, if I had to rerun, I would probably run with just 2 principal components because they have eigenvalues an order of magnitude greater than the rest of the eigenvalues. 

## Exercise 2
For this part I actually had to conda install numpy which I've never had to do before? Idk if that was right that I didn't already have numpy loaded. Actually, I had to install openblas.

I do notice very apparent patterns formed between the two PCs plotted. They aren't simply linear correlations or anything, but clear clusters or regions of linear correlation. 

A linear correlation means that the gene contributes roughly equally to both components. Clusters nearer to the axes mean that that group of genes tend to contribute similarly to both components and suggest that that group could be adequately represented by just a few of the genes in the cluster.

(PS this was the error I got)
```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/__init__.py", line 23, in <module>
    from . import multiarray
  File "/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/multiarray.py", line 10, in <module>
    from . import overrides
  File "/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/overrides.py", line 6, in <module>
    from numpy.core._multiarray_umath import (
ImportError: dlopen(/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/_multiarray_umath.cpython-39-darwin.so, 0x0002): Library not loaded: '@rpath/libopenblas.dylib'
  Referenced from: '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/_multiarray_umath.cpython-39-darwin.so'
  Reason: tried: '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/../../../../libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/../../../../libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/bin/../lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/bin/../lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/usr/local/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/usr/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file)
```
The last part said they couldn't find any openblas things so that is why I chose to install openblas.

Commit message:

more info on error messages

day3-homework/README.md, after:

# QBB2022 - Day 3 - Homework Exercises Submission

## Exercise 1 
I mainly used the main plink documentation website and gleaned that it was a command-line command, with --vcf file and --pca flags. I had actually impulsively gunzip'd the provided data file into a vcf file but after learning that plink can also accept `*.gz` files, I removed my unzipped file (because wow it was much larger than the zipped file)

```
plink --vcf ALL.chr21.shapeit2_integrated_v1a.GRCh38.20181129.phased.vcf.gz --pca
PLINK v1.90b6.21 64-bit (19 Oct 2020)          www.cog-genomics.org/plink/1.9/
(C) 2005-2020 Shaun Purcell, Christopher Chang   GNU General Public License v3
Logging to plink.log.
Options in effect:
  --pca
  --vcf ALL.chr21.shapeit2_integrated_v1a.GRCh38.20181129.phased.vcf.gz

16384 MB RAM detected; reserving 8192 MB for main workspace.
--vcf: plink-temporary.bed + plink-temporary.bim + plink-temporary.fam written.
976599 variants loaded from .bim file.
2548 people (0 males, 0 females, 2548 ambiguous) loaded from .fam.
Ambiguous sex IDs written to plink.nosex .
Using up to 8 threads (change this with --threads).
Before main variant filters, 2548 founders and 0 nonfounders present.
Calculating allele frequencies... done.
976599 variants and 2548 people pass filters and QC.
Note: No phenotypes present.
Relationship matrix calculation complete.
--pca: Results saved to plink.eigenval and plink.eigenvec .
```
I wasn't really sure what options to specify so I had just run sort of blind. Looking at the results, which pulled the top 20 eigenvalues, if I had to rerun, I would probably run with just 2 principal components because they have eigenvalues an order of magnitude greater than the rest of the eigenvalues. 

## Exercise 2
For this part I actually had to conda install numpy which I've never had to do before? Idk if that was right that I didn't already have numpy loaded. Actually, I had to install openblas.

I do notice very apparent patterns formed between the two PCs plotted. They aren't simply linear correlations or anything, but clear clusters or regions of linear correlation. 

A linear correlation means that the gene contributes roughly equally to both components. Clusters nearer to the axes mean that that group of genes tend to contribute similarly to both components and suggest that that group could be adequately represented by just a few of the genes in the cluster.

(PS this was the error I got)
```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/__init__.py", line 23, in <module>
    from . import multiarray
  File "/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/multiarray.py", line 10, in <module>
    from . import overrides
  File "/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/overrides.py", line 6, in <module>
    from numpy.core._multiarray_umath import (
ImportError: dlopen(/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/_multiarray_umath.cpython-39-darwin.so, 0x0002): Library not loaded: '@rpath/libopenblas.dylib'
  Referenced from: '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/_multiarray_umath.cpython-39-darwin.so'
  Reason: tried: '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/../../../../libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/numpy/core/../../../../libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/bin/../lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/Users/cmdb/miniconda3/bin/../lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/usr/local/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file), '/usr/lib/libopenblas.dylib' (no such file)
```
The last part said they couldn't find any openblas things so that is why I chose to `conda install openblas`.

To fix this other error, `Unable to revert mtime: /Library/Fonts`, I ran `conda install libmagic`
